CNN (Not the shitty news network) - Plan of  Attack

What is CNN - 
Brain looks at features and classifies it accordingly
Yann Le Cunn father of CNN

High Level CNN Overview - 
Input Image -> CNN -> Output Image class 

Take B&w image and COlor Image of 2 * 2 pixels 

Neural Networks takes the B&W image as a 2D array. Each of the pixel has a value between 0 and 255 (Intensity of color)
The Color Image is a 3D Layer (R, G and B Layer). Each pixel again has a value between 0 and 255

Image can be represented in a table manner where 0 would be black and 1 would be white. 

Steps followed
a) Convolution
b) Max Pooling
c) Flattening
d) Full Connection


Convolution  -

There's a formula for convolution which has integrals. 

Taking an input image in a format fo a matrix and feature detector which is of 3*3 matrix (need not be 3*3 can be 7*7). Feature detector can also be called Kernel or Filter
Convolution operation denoted by x in a circle. The feature detector is applied on the image from the top left corner. Each value is then multiplied. (0,1) * (0,1) and then the results are added up and filled into the feature map

Input Image * Filter = Feature Map


Moving the filter is called stride. Stride or movement can be changed from 1 or 2. Convention used is 2.
We lose some information when applying stride. But feature detector role is to detect features similar. Highest number when feature matches up.

Feature map helps in removing unecessary things and focuses on important features. 

Multiple feature maps are created since different filters are used. Through training it is decided what features are important. 
Multiple feature maps -> Convolution Matrix 
One filter - Can sharpen the image 
One filter might be to increase contrast
Another filter might be to blur the image

RELU Layer -
Upon the convolution layer, the Rectified Linear Unit(RELU) is applied 
Images are highly non linear. Images have lot of non linear elements due to different pixels.  mathematical operations such as convolution is applied. Relu removes all black/white from a black/white image 


Max Pooling - 

Spatial Invariance - Neural network doesn't care if the features are a bit tilted, closer or further apart. 

After applying convolution, we get feature map upon which max pooling is applied to get a pooled feature map. 
A 2*2 matrix is placed on the top corner and select the max value from the feature map. Take a stride of 2 and move and repeat the process to get the max values .
Max pooling gets rid of the unimportant things. We also account for any distortion.We keep features and account for distortion and also reduce the size. Benefit of pooling also includes reducing parameters and hence avoiding overfitting. 

Different types of pooling - Min max pooling, max pooling

Input Image -> Convolution (Feature map obtained)-> Pooling (Pooling layer)

https://www.cs.ryerson.ca/~aharley/vis/conv/

Flattening - 

Pooled Feature map is flattened into a column. Reason is we need to input this into an ANN. IT would act as the input layer  of a future ANN

Input Image -> Convolutional Layer -> Pooling Layer -> Flattening (Input Layer of a future ANN)

Full connection - 

Hidden layers are fully connected layers in CNN.
Combine features into attributes which helps in predicting classes even more
Loss function (Cost FUnction is ANN) .

Error is calculated and back propogated. Some things such as weights are adjusted to get better output and also the feature detectors are adjusted to get better results.

We need to understand what weights need to be added for predicting a particular class say dog.
Feature neuron saying floppy ears detected and feature neuron saying round nose may fire up saying it's a dog. The cat neuron meanwhile would know to ignore the neuron indicating it's a cat.
The cat neuron would be listening to the neuron which matches its expectations.
If a feature is useless it is discarded and replaced with a feature that is more important by the cat/dog neuron 
The neurons learn as to what features they need to listen to. 
The cat and dog neurons vote for the important features and who to listen to 

